[Translate] Third-Party libiary support level (#9612)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-third-party-support.md

---

> title: Third-Party Libiaries Supported by PingCAP

Reviewer: 中文建议修改为 “支持的三方库”

Author: 未列举的库也并非不支持啊。

summary: Support level for Third-Party.
---

# Third-Party Libiaries Supported by PingCAP

TiDB's support for the MySQL protocol makes most of the MySQL drivers, ORM frameworks and other tools that adapt to MySQL compatible with TiDB. This page focuses on these tools support levels.

## Support Level

PingCAP works with community to provide support with third-party tools:

- **_Full_**: Indicates that PingCAP already supports most functional compatibility with the tool, and maintains compatibility with it in new versions. PingCAP will periodically test the latest version of third-party tools documented in the table below.
- **_Beta_**: Indicates that PingCAP is working on providing support for the tool. The primary features of the tool is compatible with TiDB, but the lack of complete features testing may lead to some unexpected behavior.

> > **Warn:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> > **Warning:**
```

Author: Two `>` is right?

| C          | [MySQL Connector/C](https://downloads.mysql.com/archives/c-c/)           | 6.1.11  | Beta | N/A                                                                                        | N/A                                                                            |
| C#(.Net)   | [MySQL Connector/NET](https://downloads.mysql.com/archives/c-net/)       | 8.0.28  | Beta | N/A                                                                                        | N/A                                                                            |
| C#(.Net)   | [MySQL Connector/ODBC](https://downloads.mysql.com/archives/c-odbc/)     | 8.0.28  | Beta | N/A                                                                                        | N/A                                                                            |
| Go         | [go-sql-driver/mysql](https://github.com/go-sql-driver/mysql)            | v1.6.0  | Full | N/A                                                                                        | [Build a Simple CRUD App with TiDB and Golang](/develop/dev-guide-sample-application-golang.md) |

> | Java       | [JDBC](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/)                     | 5.1.46；8.0.29  | Full | 5.1.46：N/A；8.0.29：[pingcap/mysql-connector-j](https://github.com/pingcap/mysql-connector-j/tree/release/8.0)                                                                                     | [Build a Simple CRUD App with TiDB and Java](/develop/dev-guide-sample-application-java.md)     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Java       | [JDBC](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/)                     | 5.1.46；8.0.29  | Full | 5.1.46：N/A；8.0.29:[pingcap/mysql-connector-j](https://github.com/pingcap/mysql-connector-j/tree/release/8.0)                                                                                     | [Build a Simple CRUD App with TiDB and Java](/develop/dev-guide-sample-application-java.md)     |
```

---

> title: Third-Party Libraries Supported by PingCAP
> summary: Learn about third-party libraries supported by PingCAP.
> ---
> 
> # Third-Party Libraries Supported by PingCAP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Third-Party Libraries Supported by TiDB
summary: Learn about third-party libraries supported by TiDB.
---

# Third-Party Libraries Supported by TiDB
```

> TiDB's support for the MySQL protocol makes most of the MySQL drivers, ORM frameworks, and other tools that adapt to MySQL compatible with TiDB. This document focuses on these tools and their support levels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiDB is highly compatible with the MySQL 5.7 protocol, so most of the MySQL drivers, ORM frameworks, and other tools that adapt to MySQL are compatible with TiDB. This document focuses on these tools and their support levels for TiDB.
```

## Support Level

> PingCAP works with community and provides the following levels of support:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PingCAP works with the community and provides the following levels of support for third-party tools:
```

> PingCAP works with the community and provides the following levels of support for third-party tools:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PingCAP works with the community and provides the following support levels for third-party tools:
```

> - **_Full_**: Indicates that PingCAP is already compatible with most of the tool's functionalities, and maintains compatibility with its newer versions. PingCAP will periodically conduct compatibility tests with the latest version of third-party tools documented in the table below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **_Full_**: Indicates that TiDB is already compatible with most functionalities of the corresponding third-party tool, and maintains compatibility with its newer versions. PingCAP will periodically conduct compatibility tests with the latest version of the tool.
```

> - **_Compatible_**: Indicates that because the tool is adapted to MySQL, and TiDB is highly compatible with the MySQL protocol. So it can use most of the tool's features. However, PingCAP has not complete test this tool's features. It may lead to some unexpected behavior.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **_Compatible_**: Indicates that because the corresponding third-party tool is adapted to MySQL and TiDB is highly compatible with the MySQL protocol, so TiDB can use most features of the tool. However, PingCAP has not completed a full test on all features of the tool, which might lead to some unexpected behaviors.
```

> **Warning:**
>

> > Unless specified, support for [Application retry and error handling](/develop/dev-guide-transaction-troubleshoot.md#application-retry-and-error-handling) are not included for **Driver** or **ORM frameworks**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Unless specified, support for [Application retry and error handling](/develop/dev-guide-transaction-troubleshoot.md#application-retry-and-error-handling) is not included for **Driver** or **ORM frameworks**.
```

> If you encounter problems connecting to TiDB using the tools listed in this document, please submit an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new?assignees=&labels=type%2Fquestion&template=general-question.md) on GitHub with details to promote support on this tool.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you encounter problems when connecting to TiDB using the tools listed in this document, please submit an [issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/new?assignees=&labels=type%2Fquestion&template=general-question.md) on GitHub with details to promote support on this tool.
```
